What would you say?
How important is the disciple-making work?
Well, it is so important that Jehovah God is directly involved in it.
How do we know?
Turn in your Bibles, please, to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 9.
1 Corinthians 3, 9.
It says, for we are God's fellow-workers.
You are God's field under cultivation, God's building.
Let's think what a privilege we have to share with the Almighty Creator of the universe
and work that he considers so important here on Earth.
He allows us to experience the joy of helping to build people into disciples of Jesus Christ.
We know from the verses that come just before verse 9 that while we plant and water seeds
of kingdom truth in the hearts of interested ones, Jehovah is the one who makes those seeds
grow.
However, knowing this should not minimize in our minds the importance of our part in
the disciple-making work.
What we do and how we do it has an impact on how those seeds of truth will grow.
And Jehovah knows that the more skilled we become at making disciples, the more effective
we will be as his fellow-workers, and the more enjoyable the work will be for us.
To that end, Jehovah equips us to teach as effectively as possible.
All we have to do is accept his help, and that is what this symposium is all about.
Learning to benefit from the research tools Jehovah has given us, the help that is available
from our brothers and the power of prayer.
Each talk in this symposium will consider two questions.
First, what help has Jehovah given us?
In second, how can we use that help to increase our joy in the ministry?
Let's start by talking about research tools, what help has Jehovah given us?
He has given us the right tools, the best tools for our work.
For most of all, he has dignified us by allowing us to use his written word the Bible, and
that is our most important tool for the ministry.
According to 2 Timothy 3, verses 16 and 17, 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, it says all Scripture
is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching, for reproving, for setting things straight,
for disciplining and righteousness, so that the man of God or woman of God may be fully
competent, completely equipped for every good work.
We should want to do all we can to keep honing our skills in using the Bible to teach the
truth about God, Christ and the kingdom.
The beauty of using the Bible is that the message contained in it can literally change people.
Religious falsehoods and erroneous ideas have become strongly entrenched in the minds
of sincere people, but the Bible, when used effectively, can overturn those wrong beliefs.
By the Bible can even help a person understand his own deepest thoughts and feelings.
One Bible translation renders that 16th verse by saying the Bible is useful for resetting
the direction of a man's life.
Through our own study of the Bible, we can become skilled at using the Scriptures in the
ministry.
And to help us succeed in this, Jehovah has given us a variety of research tools to use
in personal study and family worship.
These include the Watchtower Library, the JW Library App, the Watchtower Online Library,
and the Research Guide.
Jehovah wants us to be skillful in using the tools he has provided, so that the proverb
will come true for us that says, have you seen a man skillful at his work?
He will stand before kings.
As you watch the following dramatization, notice what comes up on Nita's Bible study
that challenges her as a teacher, how she realizes she needs help to teach effectively,
and what research tool she uses to prepare for her study with Jade.
Making a friend with God?
Yeah, I don't know how to do that.
Make a friend, but you've done fine with me, but I can see you.
But God?
A friend?
Seriously?
How about what you can see?
What does creation teach us about him?
Hmm, not much.
Maybe evolve or your species dies?
It doesn't really help.
Well, I'm not talking about evolution.
I'm talking about the things that God created.
You don't suppose he's got a little workshop up there building things one at a time, do
you?
In the real world, things evolve.
It's all random.
I don't know what that tells me about him.
I wasn't ready for this.
Evolution isn't my strong suit.
I need help.
This could be good.
Many who believe evolution, ancient tidal pool, chemicals spontaneously ascend, too deep.
Wait, maybe what does the evidence reveal?
For a cell to survive DNA, RNA, inanimate chemicals, probability, I'm not sure this is
what she needs.
Her real issue was getting to know someone she can't see.
Maybe that's the best place to begin.
One widespread false teaching, Rob's people of ho, implies that human life has no purpose.
This could be it, establish the positive, what creation really says about Jehovah, versus
whatever evolution obscures.
Okay, so you got me thinking, and I did some research, and I think you really like what
I found.
Okay.
Come, come, sit down.
Did you see where need a turn for help?
The research guide.
With a little bit of searching in persistence, she found what she needed.
She got excited about the information, and passed that excitement on to her student.
How can you use our research tools effectively?
You can use them to help you explain and teach the scriptures.
For example, as with Jade, your students may be struggling to understand a scriptural
teaching, or you may have a student who is trying to overcome a personal problem.
Use the tools Jehovah has given us to search for an explanation or an illustration that
will help the person.
And you may not even have to do all the work yourself.
Perhaps you can show your students how to use our tools in order to find the Bible's answers
to their questions.
Do your best, though, to learn how to use our research tools.
Likely, you already use JW Library for personal study and family worship, and to prepare
for congregation meetings.
But if you keep up to date with new features in the JW Library app, you can also use it
to good advantage in your ministry.
There are even features built into the app that make it possible for you to save the
research that you have done so you can use it again in the future.
What are those features?
Notes and tags.
If you learn how to use them, well, now you can.
If you have JW Library with you on a device, open the Bible to 1 Timothy chapter 2, 1 Timothy
chapter 2, and follow along with this tutorial video.
Are you making full use of JW Library?
Let's learn how some are using it and then practice together.
I create notes in my Bible for many different reasons.
It could be a good point for me to talk, and illustration to help me explain something
to a Bible student, or something for my own meditation.
I highlight the key phrase and create a note.
Let's practice together.
If you have JW Library, find 1 Timothy 2 verse 6 in the Bible.
Now highlight the word ransom and tap the add a note button.
Then type your comment.
Tapping the note marker in the margin brings your comment into view.
I've created a lot of notes.
I use tags to help me find them again.
For example, whenever I hear a point that I want to use in the ministry, I create a note
and add a tag, like prayer, ransom, or last days.
Then when I'm in the ministry, I can quickly find my note.
Let's practice together.
On the note you just created, tap the three dots, and then edit.
Now tap the button, add a tag, and enter a tag name.
In this case, type ransom.
You can add as many tags as you like.
To find your notes again, go to the personal study tab.
You can type in the search box, or you can just tap the tag.
As I read the Bible chapters for the midweek meeting, I often come across verses that I
want to understand better, so I check the research guide.
Sometimes I use the points I find in a comment at the meeting.
Let's practice together.
Are you still at first Timothy chapter 2?
Tap on the number for verse 6.
Then tap the research guide button on the menu.
Now you can read information that explains this verse.
You can even copy a portion of the research and paste it into your notes.
If you were like me, you will probably have to watch that video a few more times.
If you find it challenging to learn how to use some of the features of our tools, here
are two things you can do.
First, ask someone in your congregation to assist you, and often the young people can
help the most.
Second, go to jw.org, scroll to the bottom of any page, click on jw library, and click
and there you will find more tutorial videos that you can watch.
As announced at the 2018 annual meeting, our research tools are being redesigned to be
unified and more user friendly.
Be sure to learn the new features as they are released.
And may you joyfully work with Jehovah by using the research tools he has provided for
making disciples.
Brother Joel Dalinger, a helper to the service committee will now present the next talk of
the symposium, experience the joy of disciples making, accept Jehovah's help, our brothers.